One of the first games back home was University of Houston, and it was down at the old stadium that they used to have.
There's a little bitty old name, Rinky Dink Stadium.
In fact, the Oilers had played in it for a while, too.
Right by the U of H. Yeah, kind of down there.
They're back there now.
Oh, okay.
And I had a blind date, and my wife was the blind date of my roommate.
And she didn't know anything about A&M.
My wife didn't know anything about A&M at the time.
But then when we got there, she had learned about the tradition of kissing after A&M scores.
And she wasn't really too enthused about that.
And so I found out later that the whole game she had been praying that A&M wouldn't score, and we didn't.
So she didn't have to worry about that.
The score was 0 to 10.
And my freshman year was a miserable time talking about football games.
We were one and nine.
I mean, we were talking about kissing on first downs that year, you know.
And we beat the University of Texas, or TU, in that game, but then we didn't because the referees didn't allow us to.
That's that famous game where we intercepted their ball in the end zone, and then the University of Texas referee by the name of Curly Hayes decided we hadn't intercepted it in the end zone.
What about court trips?
Court trips, of course, Houston and Fort Worth and Dallas and Waco.
How'd you get there?
Oh, everybody just pile on their car and, you know, drive on up there and stay with somebody's family and sleep on the floor and all that other stuff.
And how did Aggies in general behave out of town, on court trips?
Oh, very well.
I don't ever remember an incident.
I remember a lot of instances where opposing fans didn't behave very well and would use any excuse to attack Aggies.
And, of course, you know, you always – the one major piece of advice you got on court trips was that you went in groups of one or two hundred
You know, so that nobody would do that.
And there were instances where eggs in uniform got beat up or something like that, depending on where you went.
All right, when there was a court trip to Houston, how many people did you have at your house?
Oh, shoot.
Eight, nine, ten, you know.
I mean, you know, most of my fish buddies would be there sleeping all over the floor.
What did your mom and dad think about that?
Oh, I thought it was great.
I thought it was great.
And how did...
In general, how did Aggies behave when they were in someone else's home?
Very well, very polite, you know, everything, yes ma'am, no ma'am.
You know, people love to have Ags come and stay with them.
And once on the Saturday night, was there much partying?
Oh, yeah.
I mean, of course, the big thing was whoever lived there tried to line up dates.
And so you always had dates on that night.
All right.
Give an example.
This one I've not asked anybody before.
I hadn't thought about this.
How did you line up dates for eight or nine Aggie buddies in Houston?
Oh, I just called girlfriends that I had back home.
And girls in Houston always wanted to date Aggies anyway.
I mean, there was never a problem getting dates.
So I'd call up some of my girlfriends back in Houston and say, hey, I've got...
eight, nine, ten buds coming into town, and we're going to need dates for the football game and Saturday night and that sort of stuff.
And, you know, it wouldn't be any time before, you know, we'd have all the dates that we needed.
I never, ever had problems lining up dates for buddies of mine.
Now, did you all have beast buckets and moose pots?
Beast buckets and moose pots.
No, I don't remember that.
Oh, yes, I know what you're talking about.
Who got stuck with the worst.
Yeah, who got the dog.
Yeah, what did we call that?
Shoot.
Well, the pig pot, some name like that.
And I can't remember thinking back about that.
But yes, you'd put a buck or two in there and then vote on who got the... In my case,
I never was responsible for one of those.
I always ended up with some pretty good girls for the guys.
Now, you said that your wife, did you meet her?
I met her at the University of Houston game, my fishier.
And we went to eat.
God, what was the name of the restaurant?
Anyway, we went to one of the nicer restaurants in Houston that night to eat.
And I was sitting directly across the table from her.
And I said to myself, I'm going to marry her that night.
She was my old lady's date.
And a year later, we started dating.
And we married after I graduated.
And I've been married ever since.
We've been married almost 34 years.
How splendid.
And raised two Aggies.
Were there any court trips that you remember especially in the four years?
Plus or minus, especially?
No, I think all of them were about the same.
It was always fun going to Houston because there was such a crowd that would turn out for the games.
Nothing ever different happened at any one of them.
It was always a special event.
It was always really neat walking downtown in any of the major cities like that in Texas.
and seeing the crowd there and their reaction to the Corps, which unfortunately nowadays they don't get to do as many Corps trips.
And it was all positive then?
It was all positive.
I remember it all positive.
I remember the crowds were just very pro A&M and all sorts of people turning out.
Okay, then your first muster, excuse me, your first silver taps, do you remember?
Yeah, of course all those memories go together, but I can remember how special it was, all the lights going out.
And in those days, before we went, we had to hang blankets over our windows, because in most cases we were going to be studying after we came back anyway, so you couldn't have any lights that would show outside, so we'd hang blankets over the windows before we left.
And there was such a tremendous feeling of togetherness.
You know, when you walked out, everybody was, you were all united.
And walking over there in total silence in front of the academic building.
And I can remember being there and you're just, you're standing and you hear the slow cadence of the RV firing squad coming up.
And I'd known, I mean, they told us what would happen.
But I don't think I was prepared when that first volley of seven
reported out of the silence.
No one has ever mentioned any kind of a prank or anything.
Oh, never, ever, ever, ever.
Server taps is like one of the most solemn religious services you would ever want to go to.
And no, nobody would ever think of that.
Right, that first fall, who did you start going to for academic advice?
Trying to think.
We didn't really have an academic advisor.
In our days, we handled most of that in the outfit.
There was always an upperclassman you could go to.
who could help you out with either your fish buddies or some upperclassmen in the outfit.
I don't remember actually a faculty academic advisor.
How'd your grades go the first semester?
I DS'd my first semester.
I was scared to death.
I didn't have any money.
I was going to school on a loan.
There was a thing called a, shoot, shoot, shoot.
I can't remember the name of it.
It was run out of Austin.
It was a college loan.
And you had to maintain a good grade point ratio.
And I was scared to death my freshman year.
If I didn't maintain that, of losing that loan, and that was all I had to go to school on.
And so I DS'd my first semester.
It was overkill.
And during that time, how did you communicate with mom and dad?
Well, in dorm 12, there was a room downstairs.
kind of an open-ended area downstairs that had a phone in it.
And that was the only phone in the dorm.
And you'd have to get a pass in the evening to go down to it or try to go to it, you know, when CQ ended, which was impossible because it would be a long line there.
So sometime during CQ you'd try to get a pass and go down there and call home.
How often did you call?
Oh, not a lot.
You know, once a week maybe, something like that, once every other week, something like that.
I really didn't call home that much.
Did you all write back and forth?
Yeah, wrote back and forth.
Did Mom send any cushions?
By mail?
Yeah, you'd get cookies every once in a while and those sorts of things, and you had to hide those because everybody else would want to get some.
Where would you hide something like that?
Well, you get your footlocker.
That was about the most safe.
The footlocker was safe because nobody went into your footlocker.
We didn't have a thing like the Monster now where you can hide things in the air conditioning.
We didn't have air conditioning.
We didn't have air conditioning until my sophomore year.
We moved out of the core area.
In fact, we lived over in the brand new dorms that were in the Cebiza area my sophomore year because they were putting air conditioning into the core dorms.
Interesting story, just thinking about that.
Randy Mattson lived in those dorms at that time, lived right near our outfit.
one day we fish were told to go drown out randy matts and of course if you if you were going down the stairs when randy was coming up or see i mean you had to blend in the wall because he was so big and so one of the fish ran in his room and randy said don't do that and he did and drown him out and and he didn't get out the door randy got ready got it and randy picked him out and we had these old metal
trash cans that we use.
Randy picked him up and put this thing over his head.
Randy's holding him over and puts the can over his head and squeezes it around his head and then grabbed him by the legs.
These dorms had balconies.
And then grabbed him by the legs and held him over the balcony and then put him down and let him go.
But that was, we didn't do that anymore.
Have you ever known an Aggie more respectable
Than Randy Mattson?
Than Randy Mattson.
No.
Super guy.
Let me share an anecdote.
This is for the typist as an editorial note.
I was in my office on a Saturday when Randy came to visit as a prospective freshman.
with John Lindsey and Randy Ayers, who was Randy's buddy from high school.
I knew who Randy was because of his great athletic success in football, basketball, and particularly in track.
Shelby Metcalfe was showing him around because the track team was at the conference meet in Fayetteville, Arkansas.
And I didn't know, but I learned later that the previous week Randy had flown to the University of Southern California
with the previous Olympic gold medalist and the track coach, and he's met when they land by O.J.
Simpson and John Wayne and a, quote, friend of the track team who pulled him aside and, according to Randy, said, boy, which would you like first, wheels, bread, threads, or broads?
Randy said that he had to scratch his head and try to figure out if they had any of those commodities in Pampa, Texas where he'd gone to high school.
But where I'm heading with this story is that once we had chatted a little bit, without Randy being able to see me, I looked at Shelby Metcalfe and winked and asked Shelby if he had told Randy about the faculty senate vote on compulsory chapel.
And Shelby kind of shook and said, well, no, I don't know what you're talking about.
And Randy said, what is it?
And I said, well, the faculty voted this week that all freshman athletes have to go to chapel on Wednesday morning at seven o'clock.
Randy stood at attention and very seriously said, sir, if that's a rule, I'll go.
And Shelby Metcalf said, I'm not bringing in more athletes to talk to you.
End of note.
That's a good character statement about Randy Manson.
Did y'all do in any other celebrity students?
No, no, that was, he was just a target of opportunity because he happened to live, we happened to live near him then.
All right, so the Thanksgiving game that year was in College Station.
It was in College Station.
And that's the infamous game that, in fact, in my yearbook, I think it, in fact, let me look it up right now just as we're sitting here.
That was the game that we were winning.
until the final moments of the game, and the University of Texas was driving down.
And we intercepted the ball in the end zone.
And the referee, who I'm not good with names, but I'll always remember Curly Hayes, was a University of Texas graduate.
And he...
He said that we had not been in the end zone when we intercepted the pass.
And then Texas got the ball back with like a minute left to go and won the game.
And in my yearbook, it says, Aggies 13, TU 9, ref 6.
And in fact, if I remember correctly, there were...
There were several heart attacks in Kyle Field that night, right when that call was made.
When you go home Thanksgiving, how were you feeling about A&M, being a student?
I had always felt positive about A&M, and I knew what I was getting into, and the attitude never changed, and I was enthusiastic about A&M.
It was depressing going back because I knew what I was getting into.
But in my case, since my big brother had already graduated from Maine and was an officer in the Air Force, it was kind of a matter of pride and family reputation and everything else that I graduated.
So there was never an alternative.
And so I was always positive, but I loved A&M.
I loved the school.
I loved my fish buddies.
I loved the camaraderie.
And you were bragging about A&M back... Oh, yeah, and you talked to all your buddies back home about all the good things you did at A&M, and a lot of my buddies had no similar experiences, and so just couldn't quite relate.
And Mom and Dad, what were they?
Oh, absolutely positive about it.
And, you know, and like I say, you know, when they dropped me off, it wasn't, there was no coddling, there was nothing that said, you're your boy, you know, go to A&M.
Okay, so then second semester continues.
Yeah, same kind of stuff.
The only bad things were when you would get in the car to go back to NM.
Those were kind of not good drives.
I remember topping the hill, coming in from Navasota, and you start seeing the campus and the water towers and that sort of stuff.
It was like Christian walking into the lion's den.
You knew what was waiting for you.
Now, did you have a car as a freshman?
No, I did not.
I didn't have a car until my junior year, so I'd ride back and forth with somebody.
Did you ever hitchhike?
Never hitchhike.
Could always get a ride.
Now, that was pretty well ended by then, wasn't it, hitchhiking?
No.
You would see hitchhikers at that time, and a lot of times you'd see eggs hitchhiking.
That was in the early 60s, and it wasn't that bad.
An anecdotal story, a little sideline.
Texas was a different place in those days.
I talk to people out here in New Mexico, and it's really funny that New Mexico is a fairly liberal state, but I talk about when I was a senior in high school,
I'd always wanted this certain rifle, or I'd wanted it since it had come out.
It was a Remington nylon 66.
It was a .22 rifle that had come out in the 50s.
And I'd had a job, and I bought this rifle.
No, I was a freshman in high school when this happened.
I was a freshman in high school, and I bought this rifle.
And then my brother was in pilot training down at Moore Air Base in Mission, Texas, down in the Rio Grande Valley.
And I went down to visit him.
And I can remember to this day getting on the train to go down there to Harlingen, me, my suitcase, and my rifle, and sitting in the train and riding down there.
And, of course, that seems in today's world, you know, but here I am a kid, 13 years old or so, me, my suitcase, and my rifle, get on the train in Texas and ride down to Harlingen.
It is a different world in those days, just a totally different world.
But, yeah.
You didn't think anything about picking up hitchhikers.
So your freshman spring was just a continuation?
It was a continuation of the same.
Of course, things were loosening up.
And people were starting to drop handles with you.
And the sophomores are getting a little bit better.
And it's more of a fun, ribbing you kind of thing than the attitude of the first semester.
And you're getting more privileges.
You know, we got radios and those kinds of things, and we think we're on top of the world.
Now, how much did you all see of the campus leadership?
Did you see Mr. Rutter as a freshman much?
No, even though he lived right across from us.
The home had just been built about that time, and he was in the new house.
I can remember in Guyon Hall one time, he'd come to speak to us.
And, I mean, he was kind of a revered, you know, from our perspective, you know, this god that lived over there.
You know, he was a general.
He was a World War II hero.
He was all that stuff.
And, yeah.
Who was the commandant then?
Hannigan?
Yeah, Hannigan was the commandant.
What did you all know, you students know about him?
Not much.
Not much at all.
I mean, living down at our lair.
See, we thought he was a kind of a blank.
Yeah.
Yeah, I didn't.
Were there some tough courses that freshman year?
Oh, yeah, you know, math courses and chemistry and physics.
Did some of them have nicknames, some of those courses?
No, I mean, the only course that really had a nickname for us was Thermo, goddammit.
Thermo was the course that separated the engineers from the business majors.
And I can remember I got through Thermo the first time with a passing grade and said, thank you, Lord, and never looked back.
And a lot of my buddies took Thermo two and three times.
Did you ever hear about any giveaway courses?
Oh, you heard about them.
There were certain, you know, you'd hear about those courses.
I don't remember many of them in engineering.
Alright, did you ever hear of any that were athletes that were any courses specially for athletes or anybody else?
in that era?
No.
I didn't know about any if there ever were.
And one of the, speaking of athletes, there was a guy named Joe Weiss who was a football player who was an engineering major.
Weiss?
Weiss.
W-E-I-S-S.
W-E-I-S-S, I think.
And I had some classes with him and he'd come over to the core dorms sometimes and study because it was always, I mean particularly during CQ, it was always quiet.
A lot of non-regs would come over to the core dorms to study.
But I can remember really holding him in high respect because he was a football player and he was taking engineering.
And I thought that was a pretty tough grind.
Yeah.
All right.
Fish day, your freshman year.
What was it like?
Well, I think I talked about earlier on here that we woke up being babble bombed.
And then we found out immediately that it wasn't what it was cracked up to be.
You'd been told that it was this, that the tables would be turned and you'd be piss heads and the piss heads would be fish and you could do anything to them you want to.
Well, obviously they wouldn't do anything you told them to do.
And we found out that they had all the fish privileges, which meant they could do anything they could get away with.
And so they made fish day pretty miserable.
the fish starting out with the babble bombs in the morning and uh so when you go home after that first year you are a solid aggie what'd you do that summer um i worked um that summer i think i worked in a filling station i'd worked in a bakery that before that but i worked in a filling station
for the next several summers.
And that's basically how I made money to go to college.
I had to save all that in the summer so that I had spending money during the school year.
And you never had any thoughts about changing a major or changing your school?
Never, never, ever, ever.
And if you had, what would your dad's... Well, if I had, you know, I would have probably been excommunicated from the family, you know.
Particularly since my father had not gone to college, but loved A&M.
He would have made a good Aggie.
He loved A&M.
And of course my brother had already gone to A&M and graduated.
So I really didn't, it was kind of like the situation with my youngest son.
After my oldest son had gone, had been in the court and everything else, my youngest son didn't have a choice either.
So it was that situation.
How was the sophomore year better?
Well, sophomore year, you're not a human being yet, but you're getting close.
And you're still liable for all sorts of stuff and can be punished as a class for not doing your stuff right.
But you've got that certain cockiness and you do have a class below you.
I mean about the most disappointing thing about the final review of your fish year is there's nobody to haze as soon as you become a piss head.
Do you remember the final review of freshman year?
Oh yeah.
I remember the final review of freshman year and putting on that black braid.
everything else, and you just feel like, God, you've made it.
You look around at your fish buds and you think about all those that didn't make it.
You've finally been freed.
Being a sophomore was a good deal.
All right, then you're staying with the four-year plan, and so you're taking a heavy load.
anything unusual happen in the sophomore year?
Any special plus or minus experiences?
Anybody, any fish give you a babo bomb or any other kind of a?
No.
How did you try to treat the freshmen?
I tried to treat them.
I tried, I was not,
in the term of the day, a red ass piss head.
I tried to make sure the fish were doing what they supposed to do, knew what they needed to know, those sorts of things.
But I guess for two reasons.
Number one is I didn't have a whole lot of time to mess around with that, again because of the engineering major.
But number two,
I just wanted to make sure that they were doing what they were supposed to do.
We didn't really have a lot of guys in our class that would be, quote, red ass, that would do things that were out of line, that sort of stuff.
And because of the nature of the outfit and that sort of stuff, I never got battle-bombed or drowned out.
I guess I was one of those likable business that the fish didn't hate.
Now, you didn't have a car yet.
Didn't have a car yet.
And you had just started dating this special young lady?
Yeah, I started doing that.
And so she would come up for a football weekend.
Now, how would she get there?
She would, oddly enough, her mother would bring her up.
My wife is from Cuba.
And...
And her family had friends who were there who were on the faculty, in fact.
And so she would drive her up to A&M for football weekends, you know, the typical Spanish chaperoning and that sort of stuff.
So she would stay with the faculty friends?
Yeah, she and her mother would stay with the faculty friends or stay in a hotel.
And so I would say, here, guys, here's my date, and this is her mother.
But anyway, we got past that.
Do you remember the first football game you took her to and any Aggie touchdowns?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, and we were honest to tradition in that game.
My wife is really gung-ho.
And she had been going up to A&M before we met because of these friends that were up there and loved A&M.
And she didn't go to school there, but she might as well have.
I mean, she bleeds maroon.
And for our kids, I mean, with the two of us, they had no choice.
And in fact, neither of our kids applied anyplace but A&M.
Were there still the big dances?
Oh, yeah, big dances on the weekends.
Describe one of those.
Shoot, just, well, I don't know of anything special.
They were in Cebisa.
In Cebisa, yeah, and you just go over there and, God, I'm trying to think of anything.
About how long did they last?
Oh, till late in the evening.
And how did people behave?
Oh, I mean never, never anything unusual.
Did the young ladies have cards?
Not at that time.
Was it accepted for other Aggies to cut in?
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, just for a dance or so, but that was about it.
And you didn't, and we had, you know, things were sacrosanct.
Your girlfriend was sacrosanct.
You never criticized an individual's hometown, their parents, or their girlfriend.
You never said anything bad about those things.
And that included upperclassmen would never say anything to a freshman that criticized those things.
And there were no pranks related to a dance?
No, I don't remember anything related to a dance.
That was a pretty special occasion, you know, when you had girls up there.
And did the women always go in formals?
Oh yeah, everybody would dress up, either formals or a nice dress, depending on what the kind of dance was.
And the odd thing is, you know, that place,
was a monastery during the week but on the weekend football weekend I mean some of the most gorgeous women you'd ever seen just came out of nowhere at their place there was never a problem getting a date to come up to A&M never ever I mean any girl you knew all you had is call her and say hey would you like to come up for a football game and man the answer was yes right away they loved coming there talk about Sabisa though
side light here.
My sophomore year, we were living in Subisa, and Subisa of course seats 4,000, or did then.
And so you had all the Army and Air Force and everything in there, and I can remember, shoot, I think it was like second semester.
I was sitting with my back, we were in the dividing line between the Air Force and the Army, and my back was to the Army tables.
And I can remember to this day hearing this table turn over and hit the ground, and all the things spill off of it.
And I looked around, and all the people at that table were behind it, and the air was full of water pitchers, milk bottles, all sorts of stuff.
A food fight had begun.
Oh, oh, oh.
Yes.
And I mean, there was a deal with rolls.
But this was not a good thing.